Optimal at this altitude,
I can run flat out for a half mile before my hands start shaking.
I'm a cybernetic organism.
This episode is brought to you by a new sponsor and there is a fun story behind
it.
Legal zoom.com I've used them for a number of businesses and Matt Mullenweg,
you might recall a guest on this podcast,
CEO of Automattic now valued at more than a billion dollars and he is one of the
developers behind wordpress which powers roughly 23% of the Internet.
He first incorporated automatic on legal zoom.com and now legal zoom can help
you do a number of things that I might recommend,
like setting up a will,
doing a trademark search,
a proper trademark search so you don't put a ton of time and effort into a
business and then get shut down for instance.
Or I have to change your name more than a million people have already trusted
legal zoom over the last decade to help start and build their businesses.
So if you need to say form an LLC or a nonprofit,
anything like that,
if you're doing business solely in your own name,
as a friend told me recently,
you're kind of flying naked.
You're opening yourself up to a lot of liabilities and issues.
So check out legal zoom.com you got to protect yourself.
They have been helping people not only with the docs because you don't want to
pay necessarily someone thousands of dollars to just copy and paste something
from one word doc to the next so you can not only find things like cease and
desist letters and so on,
but they have helpful support so they have people on hand to answer your
questions all based in the u s end.
Obviously you're looking for legal advice.
Well,
they're not a law firm,
but legal zoom has built a network of independent attorneys available in most
states so they can give you advice on the best way to get started.
Plus provide contract review and other services to help run your business.
And there no surprises.
Legal Zoom provides complete transparency,
upfront pricing and customer reviews and 100% satisfaction guarantee.
So take a look legal zoom.com chances are you will find something that brings up
the thought,
Oh God,
I didn't even think of that.
I really need to take care of that.
So do the boring legal stuff upfront so you don't risk a lot later.
Go to legalzoom.com use the code Tim at checkout.
Tim,
use the Code Tim at checkout and you'll get $10 off.
That's legal zoom.com
this episode is brought to you by 99 designs your one stop shop for all things
graphic design related.
I've used 99 designs for everything from banner ads to book covers,
including sketches and mock ups that led to the four hour body,
which later became number one New York Times Number One Wall Street Journal and
the brainstorming.
A lot of it took place with designers from around the world and here's how it
works.
Whether you need a t shirt,
a business card,
a website,
an APP thumbnail,
whatever it might be.
You submit that project and designers from around the world.
We'll send you sketches and mock ups and designs.
You choose your favorite and you have an original that you love or you get your
money back.
It's that straight forward,
and many of you who are listening have already used it and created some amazing
things that I'll be sharing in the future,
but in the meantime,
if you want to see some of my competitions,
some of the book covers as well as get a free $99 upgrade,
goto 99 designs.com forward slash Tim,
that's 99 designs.com forward slash.
Tim.
Hello you sexy mixes is,
this is Tim Ferriss and welcome to another episode of the Tim Ferriss Show where
my job is to attempt to deconstruct world class performers.
I interviewed the best of the best,
whether they be chess prodigies,
hedge fund managers,
billionaire startup investors,
actors,
politicians,
special ops operatives and generals and everything in between.
What I try to do is tease out the routines,
the habits,
the first 60 minutes of their day,
favorite books,
all the tools and tricks that you can apply to your own life to emulate and
hopefully replicate a lot of their success.
And this episode is by popular demand.
Many of you have asked for more scientists,
especially more unorthodox scientists,
and you've enjoyed past episodes with doctor Peter Attia,
Doctor Rhonda,
Patrick among others.
Those were very,
very popular.
And today I bring you Adam Gazzaley.
Adam Gazzaley has been requested by name and now you have them.
So Gozali the gas monster,
the gas man,
no one calls him any of those things,
but he's a buddy of mine,
doctor Adam Gazzaley,
got his MD and phd in neuroscience at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New
York.
Then did his postdoc training and cognitive neuroscience at UC Berkeley.
Now he's the director of the Gozali lab at Uc San Francisco,
which is a cognitive neuroscience lab.
And I've spent time in the lab with things stuck to my scalp getting zapped both
as a subject but also as an experimenter,
a very novice data gatherer.
And I thank Adam for letting me bumble my way through that.
Adam has a very unique research approach in his lab,
they use a powerful combination of tools that are very often used in isolation,
but in his lab they're combined.
So that includes FM Ri,
EEG end,
transcranial magnetic and electrical stimulation.
Now,
the last category,
this stimulation has become a hot subject because you have people playing say
first person shooter games where they're taking a nine volt battery equivalent
in charge and applying it to their scalps to improve accuracy.
It's trippy stuff and to start with his research using these tools and others
has expanded our understanding of the alterations in the brain that lead to age
related cognitive decline.
But that's not enough obviously for me,
most important or most interesting to me,
his recent work goes far beyond description.
He and his lab or exploring neuroplasticity and how we can optimize our
cognitive abilities,
even if we're healthy via engagement with custom designed video games.
And of course then that leads to the question,
what happens when you combine these games with neurofeedback,
electrical stimulation or even performance enhancing drugs.
What about using all of them at once?
Well that's just one of the things that we cover in this conversation,
which is very wide ranging and it gets dense in a few areas.
Bare with it.
Listen,
you will pick up a lot,
but we also talk about how he came to be as good at what he does as he has that
was a hell of a sentence.
And uh,
his routines,
all of the things that he does to bolster a worldclass operation and world class
performance.
So without further ado,
please enjoy Adam Gazzaley.
Adam,
sir,
welcome to the show.
Thank you very much.
So I am stoked to be in this beautiful office.
I've been in the cave all day.
You have more sunlight in your office and lab.
We're here at UCF and the name of the lab is cause I love of course,
very well named and uh,
I've had my brain shocked here.
Uh,
I have I suppose,
participated in a shocking other brains,
uh,
to use a scientific term.
And you have parallettes under your desk.
Yes,
I do.
Yeah.
For,
for working out.
And I just found your entire career.
So fascinating.
We've spent a lot of time together and I wanted to have you on the show to just
explore all the nooks and crannies of this multifaceted life you've designed for
yourself.
Uh,
and I thought we could start with,
um,
of course you're very good at hosting parties.
So when you're at such a part of your own,
your own party or otherwise,
if somebody asks you,
what do you do,
how do you answer that?
Ooh,
it's a,
it's not an easy question at a party,
but I definitely get asked that one.
Um,
you know,
I usually start by saying I'm a neurologist and a neuroscientist cause it sort
of lays the framework from my perspective.
But if I have to get into a very short answer,
then I dive right into the fact that my lab is interested in pursuing how we can
enhance cognition,
uh,
to improve quality of life.
And you have a magazine cover outside of this lab on the wall and a that is
nature and a,
you have work that is the cover story.
What,
uh,
what does that work?
What does the tagline on the,
on the cover.
Yeah.
So nature was kind enough to put the title game changer on the,
on the cover of the journal,
which is quite a favorable pun for our lab I would say.
And uh,
the in the game itself.
So that is a reference to,
I guess it was neuroracer this case.
Yeah.
And uh,
the,
the why was that such a game changer in their mind?
Well,
it's a good,
um,
I,
I
think that what that paper was able to show that had not really been documented
well before was that a team of scientists could work with video game
professionals to build something customized that targets a process in the brain
that's deficient in a certain population.
In this case was older adults and their cognitive control abilities.
And then after you build that game,
you can go through a careful placebo controlled study with neural measures to
document the mechanisms of the effect and show that you can create sustainable
and meaningful changes in the brain using a video game.
So the,
the aspect that I found most fascinating is the sustained part.
Uh,
so if we're looking at using very,
very,
a simple video games,
what video games that can be made quite sexy to say,
uh,
reverse or mitigate the cognitive decline associated with the progression of
age.
Uh,
what did you see in terms of the persistence of effect?
Did they have to do it every day or that just fell off a cliff?
Well,
that was actually one of the most surprising findings of this study.
So,
uh,
it took us a year to build a video game.
We work with friends of mine that were a professional video game designers and
engineers and artists at LucasArts back in 2008.
So after a year of development,
it took us five years to do this study,
um,
which involved looking at lifespan changes from 20 to 80 years old and using the
game as a therapeutic to improve cognition.
Um,
our study involved one month of game play by the,
by older delts,
healthy to 60,
60 to 80 year olds around the bay area and they'd played for one hour a day,
three days a week for four weeks.
And then we look before and after it.
What changed in terms of their cognitive abilities and what changed in their
brain.
Um,
around six months or so,
pretty much around six months,
I realized,
wow,
we should at least bring these folks back and see what's going on.
As a followup,
as a followup.
It wasn't really planned or funded in the study,
but uh,
we saw such profound changes in this group a month later that we just wanted to
take a peek.
So we took these laptops back from them.
Uh,
many of them were upset to have lost access to the game,
uh,
which is pretty funny because they were pretty much all technically non savvy to
say the least before they started playing and they get really good at the game
and,
and they feel a connection with it so they haven't played the game in six
months.
We bring them back and we just had them play the game again.
What we found shockingly enough was that their ability to multitask on this
game,
which is a notoriously challenging activity for older adults as we've documented
and dozens of papers over the years.
Not to interrupt when we see our older,
when does that start to,
is it like a 30 plus you just start to lose incrementally this ability?
Well,
you know,
traditionally we tend to,
we tend to think of older is 65 and then it was 60 and then it was 50.
And now from my perspective,
older as being more,
you know,
older than 23 years old.
Um,
cause when we look at cognitive.